Obtain and persist Bitbucket personal access token as k8s secret (#1807)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_configuring-bitbucket-server-oauth1.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// Configuring Bitbucket server OAuth1

[id="proc_configuring-bitbucket-server-oauth1_{context}"]
= Configuring Bitbucket server OAuth1

OAuth1 for Bitbucket server allows for automatic obtaining and renewing link:https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/personal-access-tokens-939515499.html[Personal access tokens]. These tokens {prod-short} used to resolve devfile in a factory flow or it  xref:end-user-guide:authentication-against-bitbucket-server-with-the-personal-access-token.adoc[can be used in place of passwords for Git over HTTPS].

.Prerequisites

* The `{orch-cli}` tool is available.
* Bitbucket server installed and reachable from {prod-short} server.

.Procedure

> * Generate RSA key pair as described below or follow this guide: link:https://confluence.atlassian.com/jirakb/how-to-generate-public-key-to-application-link-3rd-party-applications-913214098.html[How to generate public key to application link 3rd party applications]

Reviewer: I think it would be better to use numbered list here

Reviewer 2: Indeed

Author: Done
![Знімок екрана 2021-02-03 о 11 59 50](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1614429/106730772-646bcf00-6617-11eb-84e3-6dd1b9801bf4.png)

image::bitbucket/bitbucket_configure_application_links.png[link="../_images/bitbucket/bitbucket_configure_application_links.png"]
**  Enter the application URL (see Application Link details page) and select **Create new link**.
**  Select **Continue** on the warning message. This is not a problem.
**  Complete the form:
   - Application Name - Enter a name to help you identify this {prod-short} instance.
   - Application Type - Leave as Generic Application.
   - Service Provider Name - Enter the same name you used for Application Name.
   - Consumer Key - Specify a consumer key. That is the content of `bitbucket_server_consumer_key` file.
   - Shared secret - Specify shared secret. That is the content of `bitbucket_shared_secret` file.
   - Request Token URL - `{your Bitbucket Server URL}/plugins/servlet/oauth/request-token`.
   - Access token URL - `{your Bitbucket Server URL}/plugins/servlet/oauth/access-token`.
   - Authorize URL - `{your Bitbucket Server URL}/plugins/servlet/oauth/access-token`.
   - Create incoming link - Select this checkbox.
[NOTE]
====
Bitbucket is not going to communicate with {prod-short}. There is no outgoing integration.

> It doesn't really matter what value is set as in`Request Token URL`, `Access token URL`, or `Authorize URL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It doesn't really matter what value is set as in `Request Token URL`, `Access token URL`, or `Authorize URL`.
```
I think it should fix an issue with displaying `
![Screenshot_20210203_105404](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5887312/106722097-37ff8500-660e-11eb-8984-35e0e55d1832.png)

====

> image::bitbucket/bitbucket_link_applications.png[link="../_images/bitbucket/bitbucket_link_applications.png"]

Reviewer: The text description is detailed enough. Do we really need a screenshot here?

Author: If you ask me, I'll vote for the screenshot. I've spent too much time here in the past.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// Configuring Bitbucket server OAuth1

[id="proc_configuring-bitbucket-server-oauth1_{context}"]

> = Configuring Bitbucket server OAuth1

Reviewer 2: Configuring Bitbucket server OAuth1

Is the `1` suffix at the end of the title and file a typo?

Author: no. that was made intentionally.

Reviewer 2: OK

> OAuth1 for Bitbucket server allows for automatic obtaining and renewing link:https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/personal-access-tokens-939515499.html[Personal access tokens]. These tokens {prod-short} used to resolve devfile in a factory flow or it  xref:end-user-guide:authentication-against-bitbucket-server-with-the-personal-access-token.adoc[can be used in place of passwords for Git over HTTPS].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OAuth1 for Bitbucket server allows for automatic obtaining and renewing link:https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucketserver/personal-access-tokens-939515499.html[Personal access tokens]. {prod-short} uses these tokens to resolve devfile in a factory flow or they xref:end-user-guide:authentication-against-bitbucket-server-with-the-personal-access-token.adoc[can be used in place of passwords for Git over HTTPS].
```

[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
cat public.pub | sed 's/-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----//g' |  sed 's/-----END PUBLIC KEY-----//g' | tr -d '\n'
----
====
+
image::bitbucket/bitbucket_link_applications_step2.png[link="../_images/bitbucket/bitbucket_link_applications_step2.png"]
. Configure Bitbucket Server integration on {prod-short}
.. Create a Kubernetes Secret in {prod-short} namespace
+
[subs="+quotes,+attributes"]
----
$ {orch-cli} apply -f - <<EOF
kind: Secret
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: github-oauth-credentials
  namespace: <...> <1>
  labels:
    app.kubernetes.io/part-of: che.eclipse.org
    app.kubernetes.io/component: che-secret
  annotations:
    che.eclipse.org/mount-path: /home/user/eclipse-che/conf/oauth1/bitbucket
    che.eclipse.org/mount-as: file
data:
  private.key: <...> <2>
  consumer.key: <...> <3>
  shared_secret: <...> <4>
type: Opaque
EOF
----
<1> {prod-short} namespace. The default is {prod-namespace}
<2> base64 encoded content of `privatepkcs8.pem` without first and last lines.
<3> base64 encoded content of `bitbucket_server_consumer_key` file.
<4> base64 encoded content of `bitbucket_shared_secret` file.

> .. Configure {prod-short} server environment variables:

Reviewer 3: maybe make sense to clarify that should be done by patching Che/CRW  CR? 
Or if it is done directly in config, restart of the server is required.
